Hawaii hosts a population of bird species not found anywhere else on earth. Many of these species are in danger of becoming extinct. One such bird is the Palila, which lives on the upper slopes of the Mauna Kea Volcano on Hawaii’s Big Island. The primary reason for these birds’ risk of extinction is feral cat predation. The current method of dealing with the feral cat population is trap, neuter, release. This occurs when feral cats are caught, neutered, and then released back to a colony. The option recommended in this report, is the trap and euthanize method. In this, the feral cats are caught, and then euthanized thereby removing them from the population.

Both these methods of dealing with the feral cat population in ways that can be compared. This first point of comparison is how they reduce the feral cat population. How effectively can each reduce the number of feral cats. The second point of comparison deals with Palila reproduction, and how the program protects Palila, so they are able to reproduce and grow their population. The third point of comparison deals with the predatory habits of cats. Cats are predators by nature so how does each method go about prevent the predation of Palila.

The recommended option, trap and euthanize, deals with these points more effectively and works to prevent cat predation of Palila better. The Control Working Group’s goal is to protect native Hawaiian animals from extinction due to invasive species. It is also to remove the invasive species that threaten them. The preferred method of the group is eradication of the invasive species, if it is possible. The trap and euthanize program will eradicate the feral cat population and protect the Palila population and allow it to no longer be in danger of going extinct, as is the goal of the Control Working Group.




Hawaii is considered the endangered species capital of the world, with more endangered plant and animal species per square mile than any other place on Earth. Beginning with Polynesian settlement over 1,600 years ago, Hawaii’s bird extinction crisis has continued to modern times. Hawaii used to support over 113 unique bird species not found anywhere else in the world. 71 of these species have now become extinct and 31 more are listed federally as either threatened or endangered.

One of Hawai'i's unique honeycreepers, Palila are found in mamane forests. They were once found on Oahu, Kaua'i, and the Big Island, but today, cling to life in a tiny patch of habitat on the Big Island. This area is about 25 square miles on the upper slopes of Mauna Kea Volcano. This remaining habitat of the Palila represents less than five percent of the species' historic range. The Palila was one of the first species federally listed as Endangered in 1967. There are still only about 2,000 Palila in existence.

Given the mild climate, cats can breed year-round on the Main Hawaiian Islands, with up to three litters per year around four kittens per litter. There are no wild predators of cats to help keep the free-roaming cat population in check. Feral cats are widely distributed and are found throughout bird habitats on all of the Main Hawaiian Islands from sea level to high elevation. High densities of feral cats are a major cause of Palila mortality.



The article (LaCroix, 2006) was found with a "trap and kill" keyword search on google. This article gave information about how both trap and euthanize, and trap, neuter, release work. The source (Banko, 2002) was found with a "Palila" keyword search on google. The .org site gave good detailed information about Palila and their reproduction. The article (Breeze, 2017) was found with a "predator nature of cats" search on google. This article gave information about why cats hunt birds, even if it is not for food. The journal article (Stoskopf, 2004) was found using a "feral cat reproduction" keyword search on academic search ultimate. This article gave information about feral cats and their reproductive rates.

The source (Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources, 2019) was found using a "Palila" keyword search on google. The .gov site gave information about Palila and their survival rates. The pdf of the book (Winter, 2006) was found using a "feral cat impacts on birds" keyword search on google. This book gave information about the feral cat population and how it specifically affected Palila. The journal article (Lohr, 2013) was found with a "feral cats" keyword search on academic search ultimate. This article gave a modelled comparison of a trap, neuter, release program, and a trap and euthanize program in Hawaii.

The journal article (Loyd, 2010) was found using a "feral cat" keyword search on academic search ultimate. This article gave another modelled comparison of a trap, neuter, release program, and a trap and euthanize program. The journal article (Barrows, 2004) was found using a "trap and kill" keyword search on academic search ultimate. This article provided problems with the trap, neuter, release program. The journal article (Yamane, 1996) was found in the sited sources of the (Loyd, 2010) article. This article provided information about the mating habits of feral cats.





In the past, Hawaii supported over 113 unique bird species not found anywhere else in the world. Since the arrival of humans to the islands, 71 of these species have become extinct and 31 more are listed federally as either threatened or endangered. One such bird is the Palila, which was once found on three of Hawaii’s major islands. However, it now resides in only a 25 square mile area on the upper slopes of the Mauna Kea Volcano on the Big Island. With only around 2,000 birds left in existence, the Palila is under serious threat of going extinct. This is largely due to predation from the invasive feral cat population that occupies the island.

 





The trap, neuter, and release solution to the feral cat problem became popular in the 1990s as a humane way to control the population of feral cats. In trap, neuter, release, the cats are trapped, spayed or neutered, and vaccinated against rabies and several other fatal viruses. They have their left ears clipped for identification as a sterile cat, and then are released into a colony. These colonies are then fed and monitored by volunteers. "In a managed colony altered cats remain to protect their food source, yet they do not reproduce. Therefore, a closely-monitored colony will become smaller over time" (LaCroix, 2006).
The trap, neuter, release method sterilizes cats so that they can no longer reproduce. This reduces the reproduction rates of feral cats since there are less cats that are able to mate, which thereby reduces the number of feral cats over time. Since there are less cats overall, there are less cats hunting and killing Palila. The goal is then to monitor the managed colonies and allow them to live out their lives without creating more cats. This reduction in the cat population means that there are less Palila killed by feral cats, pushing them farther from extinction.



With only about 2,000 Palila left in existence, it is important that they are breeding as much as possible. "However, Palila embryos and chicks develop slowly, so eggs and nestlings are threatened by predators for a longer time than many other small passerine species" (Banko, Banko, Fancy, Jacobi, Johnson, Lindsey, Pratt, 2002). Incubation lasts for 17 days so the mother is especially vulnerable to feral cat attacks during this time, since she is sitting still and not moving. The eggs also make an easy meal for feral cats if the mother is forced to leave the nest either by the cat or for other reasons.
Trap, neuter, release attempts to keep the neutered feral cats in monitored colonies where they are fed. This means that the feral cats are not likely to leave the colony since they know they have an easy supply of food. Since they have this easy food, they will not hunt and eat Palila and their eggs for food. Trap, neuter, release also slowly reduces the feral cat population over time since they are no longer able to reproduce. This also reduces the number of feral cats killing Palila and their eggs and will allow the birds to reproduce without threat from the feral cats.



Cats are predators by nature. Thus, they will learn to hunt in order to eat and they are taught this from a very young age. The mother presents the kittens with prey in order for the kittens to eat and, as they grow, will accompany their mother to join the hunt. Cats can also learn to hunt even if it is not for food, as they are naturally born with this instinct. This is why a cat that is being fed enough will also feel the impulse to hunt, as chasing will help the kitten's growth development and teach them to make judgments on speed, power and distance (Breeze, 2017).
In a trap, neuter, release system, the feral cat colonies are monitored and fed by volunteers. Since the feral cats have a reliable source of food, they will not hunt Palila for food. However, because of the predator nature of cats, they will still kill Palila as they are following their natural instinct. Since this hunting helps cat grow and develop, it is not possible to stop a feral cat from doing so. Therefore, since it is not possible to stop the predatory habits of feral cats, when implementing the trap, neuter, release method, Palila are still threatened by feral cats.



It is impossible to know exactly how many feral cats live on Mauna Kea’s slopes on Hawaii’s Big Island, but their number is in the thousands. According to a study examining the reproductive rates of feral cats, female cats produced an average of 1.4 litters per year, with a median of 3 kittens per litter with 25% living to adulthood (Levine, Nutter, Stoskopf, 2004, p.1). While the average life of feral cats is much shorter than domesticated cats, in Hawaii their lifespan is around 5 years. At this rate of reproduction, the cat population is growing daily and will continue to unless acted upon.


 
Age distributions of feral cats (sample ¼ gray bars, predicted ± 95% CI = solid line with dashed line envelope) on Mauna Kea, Hawaii. (Banko, Danner, Farmer, Hess, Stephens, 2010, p. 384).

The trap and euthanize method attempts to reduce the cat population by immediately removing feral cats from the population. In this method, cats are caught using specially designed traps baited with food. They are then brought to a clinic and euthanized humanely. This method instantly reduces the feral cat population with every feral cat killed, and means that there are less feral cats to kill the endangered Palila. Since there are less feral cats hunting and killing Palila, then the Palila would be able to grow there population enough to remove the threat of extinction.



Palila have low reproductive rates which means that it is difficult for the population to rise quickly. Palila on average, lay only two eggs per nesting attempt, with one egg laid per day. They build their nests in the trees in which they live. These trees are mamane trees and they provide over 90% of the Palila’s diet. Palila have evolved over time changing their beak shape, and digestive system, specifically to eat the immature seeds, as well as the high levels of potentially toxic compounds they contain (Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources, 2019).

Since Palila have evolved specifically to feed on the seeds of the mamane tree, they are unable to relocate away from the trees. The mamane tree exists year-round only on the slopes of the Mauna Kea where the Palila currently reside. Because of this, the Palila are not able to move their nests away from the cats and must build their nests within range of the cats. The trap and euthanize method for dealing with feral cats would eliminate cats and prevent them from preying on Palila when they are in this particularly vulnerable state. This would allow the Palila to reproduce much more safely and would increase their chance of surviving their first year from the 36% chance they currently have.





One of the most common ways feral cats prey on Palila surrounds their nests. 

According to Wallace and Winter (2006): Biologists have been monitoring the Palila population and found that in some areas, feral cats may be responsible for up to 40 % of nest failures. Predation has also likely contributed to the high rate of nest abandonment observed by researchers. Feral cats have been documented to prey on eggs, nestlings, and adults. (p. 21)
Another study found that despite the great abundance of mice in this environment, the largest diet component of 118 feral cats was birds (78.8%).

 


Because of the vulnerability of Palila and their offspring during nesting, feral cats are more dangerous to the birds during this time. The trap and euthanize method would remove feral cats from the mamane forests where the Palila live, stopping the predation of Palila nests. This would also prevent the abandonment of nests, and it would allow hatchlings to mature safer. This would allow the Palila population to be able to reproduce much more safely which would push them further from extinction.



Both the trap, neuter, release, and trap and kill methods in theory work to reduce the feral cat population.

However, in a study done using systems modeling software in Oahu, Hawaii, done by Cox, Lepczyk, and Lohr (2013), it was determined that: When the cat population was supplemented with 10% of the initial population size per year, the colony returned to carrying capacity within 6 years and the trap and euthanize program had to be repeated, whereas trap-neuter-release never reduced the number of cats to near zero within the 30-year time frame of the model. (p. 64)
This study shows that the trap, neuter, release method is incapable of permanently reducing the feral cat population, whereas the trap and kill method would need to be repeated every several years. Thereby the trap and euthanize program would protect the Palila population by eradicating the cat population, which is the preferred option of the control working group.

Another study that created a probabilistic graphical model to evaluate the two options for feral cat control. Their model predicted that trap, neuter, release strategies would be optimal management decisions for small local populations of less than fifty cats while trap and euthanize would be the optimal management decision for populations greater than 50 cats (DeVore, Loyd, 2010). When the feral cat population was greater than 50, the trap, neuter, release program was found to be ineffective at managing the feral cat population. 

 

Conditional Probability Table (% Probability) showing the probability of future population sizes of feral cats when a trap, neuter, release program is implemented. (DeVore, Loyd, 2010, p. 5).

With the current population of feral cats on the Mauna Kea slopes being in the thousands, this study clearly points to the trap and euthanize method being the preferred method of population control for feral cats on the Mauna Kea slopes. The population reduction from the trap and kill method will protect Palila and keep them from going extinct.

Palila are confined to the area of the upper slopes of the Mauna Kea volcano because of that is the location of the mamane trees on which they feed. Because trap, neuter, release is simply "maintenance of free-roaming cat colonies, it does not eliminate predation of native birds from feral cats" (Barrows, 2004). The feral cats are able to prey on the vulnerable mothers, nestlings, and eggs. The trap, neuter, release method creates neutered feral cats that are still able to prey on Palila and this does not allow the Palila to reproduce safely. Without high reproductive rates, the Palila population will continue towards extinction. The trap and euthanize method, by comparison, removes the feral cat population entirely. This would allow the Palila to reproduce safely and start to grow their population, so as to no longer be in danger of extinction.

Since the trap, neuter, release method releases feral cats back into the ecosystem, their impact on Palila does not end immediately after being neutered due to the predatory nature of cats.  "Re-releasing exotic predators into the environment may actually increase the per capita impact of these cats as cat survivorship increases post-neuter due to decreased participation in risky behaviors, such as fighting and roaming" (Yamane, 1996). Because the feral cats live by comparison healthier lives in monitored colonies, they are able to kill Palila for much longer than they otherwise would have. In contrast, the trap and euthanize system immediately ends any impact the cats would have on the Palila population immediately.

Feral cats also will continue to hunt Palila even if they don’t need food, as it helps them grow their skills and mature. There is nothing that can be done to change this as it is simply due to the predatory nature of cats. The trap, neuter, release program cannot remove this predatory nature so there is no way to prevent feral cats from hunting Palila if they remain alive. The only way to guarantee the protection of Palila from feral cats is to utilize the trap and euthanize program. This will eradicate the feral cat population, and it will protect the Palila and allow them to no longer be in danger of extinction, as is the goal of the control working group. The only way to protect the Palila population from extinction is to remove all feral cats from the slopes of the Mauna Kea volcano using the trap and euthanize method of feral cat population control.



The native Hawaiian Palila is an endangered species due to the predation from feral cats. With only around 2,000 birds left in existence, the Palila is under serious threat of going extinct. The current method of dealing with the feral cat population in Hawaii is to trap, neuter, and release feral cats. However, this method allows feral cats to continue to prey on Palila after they have been neutered, up until they die of natural causes. This method has also been shown to not effectively reduce the population of feral cats.

The trap and euthanize method of dealing with the invasive feral cat population would better protect Palila from extinction. Since the cats are euthanized, their predation of Palila ends with the procedure. Also, this method has been shown to work effectively on large cat populations, whereas the trap, neuter, release method has been shown to be ineffective. Since the Palila are not able to relocate, it is important to permanently remove the feral cat population from the habitat. The goal of the Control Working Group is to protect native Hawaiian species from invasive species, preferable by eradicating the invasive species. The trap and euthanize program would eradicate the feral cat population, thereby protecting the Palila from extinction due to feral cat predation.
