__label__2 Stuning even for the non-gamer: This sound track was beautiful! It paints the senery in your mind so well I would recomend it even to people who hate vid. game music! I have played the game Chrono Cross but out of all of the games I have ever played it has the best music! It backs away from crude keyboarding and takes a fresher step with grate guitars and soulful orchestras. It would impress anyone who cares to listen! ^_^
__label__2 The best soundtrack ever to anything.: I'm reading a lot of reviews saying that this is the best 'game soundtrack' and I figured that I'd write a review to disagree a bit. This in my opinino is Yasunori Mitsuda's ultimate masterpiece. The music is timeless and I'm been listening to it for years now and its beauty simply refuses to fade.The price tag on this is pretty staggering I must say, but if you are going to buy any cd for this much money, this is the only one that I feel would be worth every penny.
__label__2 Amazing!: This soundtrack is my favorite music of all time, hands down. The intense sadness of "Prisoners of Fate" (which means all the more if you've played the game) and the hope in "A Distant Promise" and "Girl who Stole the Star" have been an important inspiration to me personally throughout my teen years. The higher energy tracks like "Chrono Cross ~ Time's Scar~", "Time of the Dreamwatch", and "Chronomantique" (indefinably remeniscent of Chrono Trigger) are all absolutely superb as well.This soundtrack is amazing music, probably the best of this composer's work (I haven't heard the Xenogears soundtrack, so I can't say for sure), and even if you've never played the game, it would be worth twice the price to buy it.I wish I could give it 6 stars.
__label__2 Excellent Soundtrack: I truly like this soundtrack and I enjoy video game music. I have played this game and most of the music on here I enjoy and it's truly relaxing and peaceful.On disk one. my favorites are Scars Of Time, Between Life and Death, Forest Of Illusion, Fortress of Ancient Dragons, Lost Fragment, and Drowned Valley.Disk Two: The Draggons, Galdorb - Home, Chronomantique, Prisoners of Fate, Gale, and my girlfriend likes ZelbessDisk Three: The best of the three. Garden Of God, Chronopolis, Fates, Jellyfish sea, Burning Orphange, Dragon's Prayer, Tower Of Stars, Dragon God, and Radical Dreamers - Unstealable Jewel.Overall, this is a excellent soundtrack and should be brought by those that like video game music.Xander Cross
__label__2 Remember, Pull Your Jaw Off The Floor After Hearing it: If you've played the game, you know how divine the music is! Every single song tells a story of the game, it's that good! The greatest songs are without a doubt, Chrono Cross: Time's Scar, Magical Dreamers: The Wind, The Stars, and the Sea and Radical Dreamers: Unstolen Jewel. (Translation varies) This music is perfect if you ask me, the best it can be. Yasunori Mitsuda just poured his heart on and wrote it down on paper.
__label__2 an absolute masterpiece: I am quite sure any of you actually taking the time to read this have played the game at least once, and heard at least a few of the tracks here. And whether you were aware of it or not, Mitsuda's music contributed greatly to the mood of every single minute of the whole game.Composed of 3 CDs and quite a few songs (I haven't an exact count), all of which are heart-rendering and impressively remarkable, this soundtrack is one I assure you you will not forget. It has everything for every listener -- from fast-paced and energetic (Dancing the Tokage or Termina Home), to slower and more haunting (Dragon God), to purely beautifully composed (Time's Scar), to even some fantastic vocals (Radical Dreamers).This is one of the best videogame soundtracks out there, and surely Mitsuda's best ever. ^_^
__label__1 Buyer beware: This is a self-published book, and if you want to know why--read a few paragraphs! Those 5 star reviews must have been written by Ms. Haddon's family and friends--or perhaps, by herself! I can't imagine anyone reading the whole thing--I spent an evening with the book and a friend and we were in hysterics reading bits and pieces of it to one another. It is most definitely bad enough to be entered into some kind of a "worst book" contest. I can't believe Amazon even sells this kind of thing. Maybe I can offer them my 8th grade term paper on "To Kill a Mockingbird"--a book I am quite sure Ms. Haddon never heard of. Anyway, unless you are in a mood to send a book to someone as a joke---stay far, far away from this one!
__label__2 Glorious story: I loved Whisper of the wicked saints. The story was amazing and I was pleasantly surprised at the changes in the book. I am not normaly someone who is into romance novels, but the world was raving about this book and so I bought it. I loved it !! This is a brilliant story because it is so true. This book was so wonderful that I have told all of my friends to read it. It is not a typical romance, it is so much more. Not reading this book is a crime, becuase you are missing out on a heart warming story.
__label__2 A FIVE STAR BOOK: I just finished reading Whisper of the Wicked saints. I fell in love with the caracters. I expected an average romance read, but instead I found one of my favorite books of all time. Just when I thought I could predict the outcome I was shocked ! The writting was so descriptive that my heart broke when Julia's did and I felt as if I was there with them instead of just a distant reader. If you are a lover of romance novels then this is a must read. Don't let the cover fool you this book is spectacular!
__label__2 Whispers of the Wicked Saints: This was a easy to read book that made me want to keep reading on and on, not easy to put down.It left me wanting to read the follow on, which I hope is coming soon. I used to read a lot but have gotten away from it. This book made me want to read again. Very enjoyable.
__label__1 The Worst!: A complete waste of time. Typographical errors, poor grammar, and a totally pathetic plot add up to absolutely nothing. I'm embarrassed for this author and very disappointed I actually paid for this book.
__label__2 Great book: This was a great book,I just could not put it down,and could not read it fast enough. Boy what a book the twist and turns in this just keeps you guessing and wanting to know what is going to happen next. This book makes you fall in love and can heat you up,it can also make you so angery. this book can make you go throu several of your emotions. This is a quick read romance. It is something that you will want to end your day off with if you read at night.
__label__2 Great Read: I thought this book was brilliant, but yet realistic. It showed me that to error is human. I loved the fact that this writer showed the loving side of God and not the revengeful side of him. I loved how it twisted and turned and I could not put it down. I also loved The glass castle.
__label__1 Oh please: I guess you have to be a romance novel lover for this one, and not a very discerning one. All others beware! It is absolute drivel. I figured I was in trouble when a typo is prominently featured on the back cover, but the first page of the book removed all doubt. Wait - maybe I'm missing the point. A quick re-read of the beginning now makes it clear. This has to be an intentional churning of over-heated prose for satiric purposes. Phew, so glad I didn't waste $10.95 after all.
__label__1 Awful beyond belief!: I feel I have to write to keep others from wasting their money. This book seems to have been written by a 7th grader with poor grammatical skills for her age! As another reviewer points out, there is a misspelling on the cover, and I believe there is at least one per chapter. For example, it was mentioned twice that she had a "lean" on her house. I was so distracted by the poor writing and weak plot, that I decided to read with a pencil in hand to mark all of the horrible grammar and spelling. Please don't waste your money. I too, believe that the good reviews must have been written by the author's relatives. I will not put much faith in the reviews from now on!
__label__1 Don't try to fool us with fake reviews.: It's glaringly obvious that all of the glowing reviews have been written by the same person, perhaps the author herself. They all have the same misspellings and poor sentence structure that is featured in the book. Who made Veronica Haddon think she is an author?
__label__2 A romantic zen baseball comedy: When you hear folks say that they don't make 'em like that anymore, they might be talking about "BY THE SEA". This is a very cool story about a young Cuban girl searching for idenity who stumbles into a coastal resort kitchen gig with a zen motorcycle maintenance man, three hysterical Italian chefs and a Latino fireballing right handed pitcher who plays on the team sponsored by the resort's owner. As is often the case she 'finds' herself through honest, often comical but always emotional, interaction with this sizzling roster of players. With the perfect mix of special effects, that salsa sound and flashbacks, BY THE SEA, gets 4 BIG stars from me!
__label__2 Fashionable Compression Stockings!: After I had a DVT my doctor required me to wear compression stockings. I wore ugly white TED hose and yucky thick brown stockings. Then I found Jobst UltraSheer. They gave me the compression I needed (15-20,) but looked like regular pantyhose. Even though my blood clot has been gone for 4 years, I still buy these to wear as support stockings because they make my legs feel so nice.**Note, I have problems with the rubberized tops rolling down my thigh. I tried the Jobst adhesive, but I hated having my skin pulled all day. I bought an inexpensive garter belt and it works fine and helps keep the stockings from rolling.
__label__2 Jobst UltraSheer Thigh High: Excellent product. However, they are very difficult to get on for older people. I feel like I've had a full day workout after getting them on. Also, as the day wears on, they begin to roll down from the top and create a very deep ridge in the skin. I have to wear them, so if those two difficulties could be addressed it would be such a help.
__label__1 sizes recomended in the size chart are not real: sizes are much smaller than what is recomended in the chart. I tried to put it and sheer it!. I guess you should not buy this item in the internet..it is better to go to the store and check it
__label__1 mens ultrasheer: This model may be ok for sedentary types, but I'm active and get around alot in my job - consistently found these stockings rolled up down by my ankles! Not Good!! Solution: go with the standard compression stocking, 20-30, stock #114622. Excellent support, stays up and gives me what I need. Both pair of these also tore as I struggled to pull them up all the time. Good riddance/bad investment!
__label__2 Delicious cookie mix: I thought it was funny that I bought this product without knowing it was a mix. I read the header very quickly and just thought it was packaged cookies. But no, it is cookie MIX and I guess I should have noticed that since it is right in the title.This is the first time I have ever tried baking with a cookie mix. If you are used to the convenience of the cookie dough that you buy wrapped up in plastic logs then you might be in for a bit of a surprise. Mixing up the dough can get VERY messy (it is extremely sticky). However, with a cookie mix like this you have a lot of flexibility in the ratio of ingredients (I like to add some extra butter to make the baked cookies more chewy). Also, this mix has really large chocolate chips in it--I love that.I removed a star for the addition of 'natural flavors' in the mix.
__label__1 Another Abysmal Digital Copy: Rather than scratches and insect droppings, this one has random pixelations combined with muddy light and vague image resolution. Probably the cue should have been the packaging is straight out of your street corner bootleg dealer.If you've ever seen a reasonably good condition film copy, you know the defining visuals of his film are the crystal clear lighting contrasts in black and white. The surrounding countryside and 'old home' scenes are set with early morning ground mists or the haze of memory while the events on the bridge and in the water are bright, clear, and immediate.Here everything is dull, dark, and clouded. Or, if you remember the timbre and enunciation of Captain's commands, so are the visuals.After that, it is hard to believe this award winning, critically acclaimed film's best presentation is on YOUTUBE. Somewhere "out there" is a DVD that comes up to the standard of a 16mm public library reel.Just none of them appear to be on Amazon.
__label__2 A fascinating insight into the life of modern Japanese teens: I thoroughly enjoyed Rising Sons and Daughters. I don't know of any other book that looks at Japanese society from the point of view of its young people poised as they are between their parents' age-old Japanese culture of restraint and obedience to the will of the community, and their peers' adulation of Western culture. True to form, the "New Young" of Japan seem to be creating an "international" blend, as the Ando family demonstrates in this beautifully written book of vignettes of the private lives of members of this family. Steven Wardell is clearly a talented young author, adopted for some of his schooling into this family of four teens, and thus able to view family life in Japan from the inside out. A great read!
__label__2 i liked this album more then i thought i would: I heard a song or two and thought same o same o,but when i listened to songs like "blue angel","lanna" and 'mama" the hair just rose off my neck.Roy is trully an amazing singer with a talent you don't find much now days.
__label__1 Problem with charging smaller AAAs: I have had the charger for more than two years. It charges AA batteries just fine, but has a huge problem securing smaller AAA batteries. To charge the smaller batteries you need to flip down the little button at the positive end. In the beginning one of the four AAA batteries would pop up, and now three out of the four won't hold. The problem is the flip mechanism became loose, and any horizontal pressure would push the buttons back up. What I have to do now is using duct tape and a segment of crayon, apply the crayon on the buttons, and wrap the tape around. You know how painful that is.
__label__1 Works, but not as advertised: I bought one of these chargers..the instructions say the lights stay on while the battery charges...true. The instructions doNT say the lights turn off when its done. Which is also true. 24 hours of charging and the lights stay on. I returned it thinking I had a bad unit.The new one did the same thing. I just kept it since it does charge...but the lights are useless since they seem to always stay on. It's a "backup" charger for when I manage to drain all my AAs but I wouldn't want this as my only charger.
__label__1 Disappointed: I read the reviews,made my purchase and was very disappointed. The charger is convenient by charging all four batteries at once but the charge only lasts a very short time. I now have to go and find batteries that will give me longer life than the kodak NiMH AA batteries.
__label__1 Oh dear: I was excited to find a book ostensibly about Muslim feminism, but this volume did not live up to the expectations.One essay, among other things, describes the veil as potentially liberating. It doesn't begin to explain how or why.Another, on Muslim women in Cape Town, claims that Muslim women there are separate but "more than equal." Gee whiz, what a disappointment.I had expected and hoped for at least one Muslim feminist condemnation of gender apartheid. But there is not a single one in the book.I'm surprised it didn't have an essay extolling the virtues of female genital mutilation.--Alyssa A. Lappen